extension proposal (#111)
opencontainers/distribution-spec: extensions/README.md

---
tags: oci,distribution
breaks: false
---

# Extensions API for Distribution

> Extensions, in general, to the distribution-spec API are not denied by the distribution-spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions, in general, to the distribution-spec API are allowed by the distribution-spec, with certain reservations disclosed herein.
```

> This document outlines path and safe place for registry implementations and clients to iterate on new APIs, establish them, and propose them to OCI for canonical reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines a path for registry implementations and clients to iterate on new APIs, establish them, and propose them to OCI for canonical reference.
```

> The basis of the Extension API (`_oci`) is described in a document which should be emulated for all extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basis of the Extension API (`_oci`), as described herein,  should be emulated for all extensions.
```

## Table

_notice_: All new `/extensions/_$ext.md` docs MUST be added to this table.

| Extension (`$ext`)       | Summary                                              |
|:------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------:|
| [`_oci`](./_oci.md)      | Extensions discovering extensions on registry server |

> | `_catalog`               | Resevered prior extension                            |

Reviewer 2: nit: typo

```suggestion
| `_catalog`               | Reserved prior extension                            |
```

## Name

Extension names MUST be unique.
Extensions recorded in this distribution-spec are considered canonical definitions.

Extensions are specified by extension namespace name (`$ext`) aligning with the project, followed by the `component`, and last by by the `module`.
This constitutes the URI segments of the extension endpoint.
Additional options may be passed as parameters to the endpoint.

```http
_<ext>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

For versioning, extensions SHOULD use versioned `mediaType`.

### Registry Level Extensions

Registry level extensions are nested under `/v2`.

```http

> GET /v2/_<ns>/<ext>/<component>[?<key>=<value>&...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GET /v2/_<extension>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

```

> For example a search extension may be of the form `/v2/_oci/catalog/search?pattern=foo?n=10`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example a search extension may be of the form `/v2/_oci/catalog/search?pattern=foo&n=10`
```

### Repository Level Extensions

> Repository level extensions follow the same naming rules the endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repository level extensions follow the same naming rules. The endpoints
```

> can be access under a repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be accessed under a repository.
```

```http

> GET /v2/<name>/_<ns>/<ext>/<component>[?<key>=<value>&...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GET /v2/<name>/_<extension>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

```

TODO
```
GET /v2/vbatts/myapp/_oci/referrers/link_to?
```

### Reserved Namespaces

> As of current, ```_oci``` and ```_ext``` are considered as reserved namespaces and cannot be used by other extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```_oci``` and ```_ext``` are reserved namespaces and cannot be used by other extensions.
```

## Filename

> Extension definitions SHOULD be placed under `./ext/` in the specification repository. Extension files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extension definitions MUST be placed under `./ext/` in the specification repository. Extension files
```

> SHOULD follow the `ext-$ns-$name.md`. Refer [ext.md](./ext.md) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST follow the `ext-$ns-$name.md`. Refer [ext.md](./ext.md) for more details.
```

| `_catalog`               | Reserved prior extension                             |

## Name

Extension names MUST be unique.
Extensions recorded in this distribution-spec are considered canonical definitions.

Extensions are specified by extension name (`$extension`) aligning with the project, followed by the `component`, and last by by the `module`.
This constitutes the URI segments of the extension endpoint.
Additional options may be passed as parameters to the endpoint.

```http
_<extension>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

### Registry-Level Extensions

Registry-level extensions are nested under `/v2`.

```http
GET /v2/_<extension>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

A contrived example of a search extension may be of the form `/v2/_oci/catalog/search?pattern=foo?n=10`

### Repository-Level Extensions

Repository-level extension endpoints are scoped under a repository name.

Repository-level extensions follow the same naming rules as the [registry-level endpoints](#registry-level-extensions).

```http
GET /v2/<name>/_<extension>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```

### Reserved Namespaces

> As of current, `_oci` and `_catalog` are considered as reserved namespaces and cannot be used by other extensions.

Reviewer 4: ... or as part of repository names.

Author: oh for sure. In the updated push I include some string formatting regular expression. With the `_` prefix on the extension name, that differentiates all extensions, from any `<name>` of a manifest reference.

This document outlines path and safe place for registry implementations and clients to iterate on new APIs, establish them, and propose them to OCI for canonical reference.

The basis of the Extension API (`_oci`) is described in a document which should be emulated for all extensions.

## Table

_notice_: All new `/extensions/_$ext.md` docs MUST be added to this table.

| Extension (`$ext`)       | Summary                                              |
|:------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------:|
| [`_oci`](./_oci.md)      | Extensions discovering extensions on registry server |
| `_catalog`               | Resevered prior extension                            |

## Name

Extension names MUST be unique.
Extensions recorded in this distribution-spec are considered canonical definitions.

Extensions are specified by extension namespace name (`$ext`) aligning with the project, followed by the `component`, and last by by the `module`.
This constitutes the URI segments of the extension endpoint.
Additional options may be passed as parameters to the endpoint.

```http

> _<ext>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]

Reviewer 3: Are we going with `_<namespace>/<component>/<module>`?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_<namespace>/<component>/<module>[?<key>=<value>&...]
```
